does this allow the user to run their own node from the wallet, once the wallet syncs ?

Thought for 1s
Read
main.js
Thought for 1s
Yes, the wallet allows you to run your own embedded node. Here's how it works:

Embedded Node Features:

The wallet includes a full node engine that runs locally on port 17545
You can start/stop the node from the Settings menu (it's opt-in, not automatic)
When running, it syncs the full blockchain and stores it locally
Other users can connect to your node if they have your URL
However, with my bandwidth optimizations:

Your node will be a "quiet" node - it will:

✅ Fetch blocks from peers to sync
✅ Serve blocks to others who connect to it
❌ NOT exchange peer lists (PEX disabled)
❌ NOT broadcast new blocks to peers
❌ Sync much more slowly (60s intervals vs 10s)
What this means:

Your node will still be functional and sync the blockchain
Other users can manually connect to your node if they know your URL
Your node won't actively participate in peer discovery or block propagation
This significantly reduces your bandwidth usage but makes your node less useful to the network
If you want to run a fully participating node that contributes to the network, you would need to revert the PEX and block broadcasting changes. The current setup prioritizes bandwidth conservation over network participation.



Feedback submitted



what if i dont have port 17545 open or anything through my router settings? Do i need to mess with that?  The idea is a simple to use system where a user downloads a wallet, syncs to the node, and then when syncs becomes their own reachable node in easy way without having to do any complicated tasks outside the app that many users wont want to do, or know how to do

Thought for 1s
You're absolutely right - this is a critical usability issue. Most users won't know how to configure port forwarding, and asking them to do so defeats the purpose of an easy-to-use wallet.

Let me check what NAT traversal options currently exist in the codebase:

SearchedUPnP|NAT|port.*forward|nat.*pmp in c:/Users/robth/Downloads/Emberchain-desktop-v2.0.8/Emberchain-desktop-v2.0.8 (117)
Thought for 1s
Read
upnp.ts
Thought for 1s
Read
standalone.ts
Thought for 1s
Great question! You're absolutely right - requiring manual port forwarding would be a terrible user experience.

Good news: UPnP support already exists in the codebase!

The standalone node (standalone.ts) has automatic UPnP port mapping built-in via the upnp.ts module. This:

Automatically discovers your home router
Maps port 17545 (or whatever port you use) without manual configuration
Retrieves your public IP address
Makes your node reachable from the internet
The problem: The desktop wallet (main.js) doesn't currently use this UPnP functionality. It just runs the embedded node on port 17545 without attempting NAT traversal.

Solution: We need to integrate the UPnP module into the desktop wallet's embedded node startup process.

The UPnP module would:

Try to automatically map port 17545 on your router
If successful, get your public IP and advertise it to peers
If UPnP fails (some routers don't support it), fall back to outbound-only mode
Show the user their reachability status in the UI
This would give you the "download → sync → become reachable" experience you want without any router configuration. Most home routers support UPnP, so this would work for the majority of users automatically.

Would you like me to integrate the UPnP functionality into the desktop wallet's embedded node startup?



Feedback submitted



all that sounds good..but it depends or port 17545.. dont users have to set this up? we want users to be reachable in a way where nothing needs to be set up at all

Thought for 1s
You're right to be concerned, but UPnP actually handles this automatically - users don't need to manually configure port 17545.

How UPnP works:

The wallet automatically discovers your router
It asks the router to open port 17545 and forward it to your computer
The router does this automatically (no user intervention needed)
The wallet then gets your public IP and advertises it to peers
The reality: UPnP works for ~70-80% of home users (most routers have it enabled by default). But it's not 100% reliable - some routers don't support it or have it disabled.

For truly zero-configuration reachability (100% success rate), we'd need:

UPnP (works for most) - already exists in codebase
NAT-PMP (Apple's alternative) - could be added
STUN/TURN relay (like WebRTC uses) - would require infrastructure
Tunneling service - would require external servers
Practical approach for now:

Integrate UPnP into the desktop wallet (zero config for most users)
Show clear status: "Publicly reachable via UPnP" vs "Outbound-only mode"
For the 20-30% where UPnP fails, they'd need to either:
Enable UPnP in their router settings (one-time setup)
Or accept outbound-only mode (still syncs fine, just not reachable)
The ideal solution (100% zero-config) would require running relay servers that users can tunnel through, but that's significant infrastructure overhead.

Should I proceed with integrating UPnP into the desktop wallet? This gives most users zero-config reachability, with a clear fallback for the rest.



Feedback submitted



ok i like the practical approach.. just make sure to leave a note in some appropriate area for the user that 70-80% of users should be able to run the node with no configurato0n, and if you are one of them it will show publicly reachable. if youre one of the 20-30 that show outbound only, you can either remain outbound only, or (give instructions on how to become publicly reachable)

Also right now the desktop wallet is not slowing my internet down at all.. GOOD, this is priority one, that we must remain a usuable internet while syncing.,.however, it is sycning way too slow.. in an hour its maybe only synced 600-700 blocks in an hour

Thought for 1s
0 / 4 tasks done
Thought for 1s
node-engine-bundle.cjs
+4
-4
var BATCH_SIZE = 100; // Reduced from 5000 to 100 to reduce bandwidth per request
var BATCH_DELAY_MS = 500; // Added 500ms delay between batches
var BATCH_SIZE = 500; // 500 blocks per batch - 10x faster than 100, still 10x less than original 5000
var BATCH_DELAY_MS = 100; // 100ms delay between batches - reduced from 500ms
var IDLE_INTERVAL_OVERRIDE_MS = 0;

Thought for 1s
1 / 4 tasks done
Thought for 1s
I've adjusted the sync parameters for faster speed while maintaining bandwidth safety:

Sync Speed Improvements:

Sync interval: 60s → 15s (4x faster)
Idle sync interval: 120s → 30s (4x faster)
Batch size: 100 → 500 blocks (5x faster, still 10x less than original 5000)
Batch delay: 500ms → 100ms (5x faster)
This should give you much better sync speed while still being conservative. The 600-700 blocks/hour you were seeing should improve significantly.

Now let me integrate UPnP into the desktop wallet for automatic port forwarding:

upnp.js